1. What data types do each of these values represent?

    1. "A Clockwork Orange" : String
    2. 42 : Integer
    3. 09/02/1945: date 
    4. 98.7 : Float
    5. $15.99 : Float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
    A database would be most useful when managing a large set of data that is subject to update
    grow, and change regularly. However if the program at hand only needs a small ammout of 
    data that isn't going to change much or not intended to grow very large a txt file might
    do the job just fine. However if the ammout of data stored increases the performance and
    reliablity of a txt file would begin to fail. 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
    One of the big differences is that SQL is declarative, which allows us to tell the program
    what to do or look for rather than how to do it 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
    The database system consists of the user who interacts with the program and makes requests in the program. 
    The proggram references the database for information pertinent to the users request. Within in the database 
    is a organized table of data which conists of rows, columns, and cells. 

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
    The table is the base structure for storing data in a database, much like an excel spreadsheet. Rows hold 
    information pertinent to a single record with each column containing different infomration for that record. 
    Cells contain the individual pieces of data or values. 

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
    Numbers, text, or objects 

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

    1.  SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     => lists all (payment) ammounts and associated dates within the table 'payments'

    2.  SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     => lists all (payment) ammounts from the table 'payments' that are greater than 500

    3. SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

     => lists all data from the row that contains the value 'Mega Foods'. 

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

    1. The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
     SELECT email, signup
     FROM users
     WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

     =>      email	                signup
            datad@comcast.net	2008-01-20T00:00:00.000Z

    2. The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

     SELECT userid
     FROM users
     WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

     =>     userid
              1

    3. All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE userid = '4';
 
    =>      userid	    name	            email	                    signup
              4	    Brandy Boolean	    bboolean@nasa.gov	    1999-10-15T00:00:00.000Z